README.md, before:

# Risky Chat

Risky Chat is a global chatroom implemented as a web
application, for the [Cyber Security Base 2020 course][course].

Users identify themselves by a unique name which expires after the
user has not posted anything in 5 minutes, making a nice tradeoff
between transient identity and anonymity, and being able to ensure two
sequential posts are from the same person.

## Important security note

This application has intentionally designed security risks, including
one very major one: being implemented in C without using any tools or
checks to ensure secure memory management. Avoid this.

## Why C?

It's the one time I can write an incredibly insecure server in C with
a good conscience. Ignoring the numerous security risks it raises, C
is a really fun programming language to use.

## Building and running

Requirements:

- a C compiler
- one of the following:
  - a POSIX.1-2001 compliant system (e.g. Linux, probably macOS)
  - a system with winsock2 (e.g. Windows)

Just compile [riskychat.c](riskychat.c) into an executable. Basic
example:

```shell
# Build with cc:
cc -o riskychat riskychat.c
# Run:
./riskychat
```

Risky Chat also compiles with TCC, so you can run it like a script if
you have [tcc][tcc]:

```shell
# Compile and run (doesn't leave an executable lying around):
tcc -run riskychat.c
```

For development, I use the following incantation:

```shell
# Enable a lot of warnings and whatever static analysis is available, and create a static binary.
# Runs on Arch Linux with the community/musl package. Build:
musl-gcc -static -std=c89 -Wall -Werror -Wpedantic -fanalyzer -O3 -o riskychat riskychat.c
# Run:
./riskychat
```

Finally, compiling for Windows works too, simply run the following in
a Developer Command Prompt (from a Visual Studio installation):

```batchfile
REM Build:
cl.exe /Feriskychat riskychat.c
REM Run:
riskychat.exe
```

## Some notes

Here's some general notes about the program, so you don't need to
figure this out by reverse engineering or wading through the code:

- Connection handling is very simple, there's no keep-alive, the TCP
  connection is closed after delivering the response. This just made
  the implementation simpler, but keep-alive could be added in without
  too much effort.
- The networking code uses [Berkeley
  sockets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berkeley_sockets) as
  standardized by POSIX, but does not use
  [select()](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/select.html).
  Instead, it just keeps calling
  [accept()](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/accept.html),
  [recv()](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/recv.html),
  and
  [send()](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/send.html)
  with a very short timeout (1 microsecond). Surprisingly enough, this
  doesn't seem to hog the CPU that badly, at least on my system.
- For some reason, SIGPIPEs seem to be prevalent. I don't know why, but I
  didn't have time to fix them either. The server probably closes the
  socket too soon in some cases.

## License

This software is distributed under the [GNU AGPL 3.0][license]
license. Though I really recommend against using it, it's very
insecure.

[course]: https://cybersecuritybase.mooc.fi/
[license]: LICENSE.md
[tcc]: https://bellard.org/tcc/

Commit message:

Add linting and CI course explanation in the readme

README.md, after:

# Risky Chat

Risky Chat is a global chatroom implemented as a web
application, for the [Cyber Security Base 2020 course][course].

Users identify themselves by a unique name which expires after the
user has not posted anything in 5 minutes, making a nice tradeoff
between transient identity and anonymity, and being able to ensure two
sequential posts are from the same person.

## Fullstack Part 11 (CI/CD) note

This is a copy of the [pcjens/risky-chat](https://github.com/pcjens/risky-chat)
repository for the purposes of the CI/CD course, with the following steps done
in a GitHub Actions workflow:
- Code formatting is checked against clang-format.
- The code is built, with warnings as errors to serve as a linting step.
- The code is tested by the testing script [test.sh](test.sh), which starts up
  the application and makes a few requests to it to ensure that a user can enter
  the chat, post something, and see it appear.
- Unless skipped by including "#skip" in the commit message, the code is
  additionally built, tagged as a new version, and deployed at:
  <https://risky-chat-8f8d4484.fly.dev/>
- Notably, there's no discord notifications since I'd rather not publicize the
  deployment URL further (the chat app *is* entirely unrestricted and public).
  And I think they are trivial enough to add that I don't think that their
  omission is a big issue.

The main repository for the CI/CD course is
[pcjens/full-stack-open-pokedex](https://github.com/pcjens/full-stack-open-pokedex).

## Important security note

This application has intentionally designed security risks, including
one very major one: being implemented in C without using any tools or
checks to ensure secure memory management. Avoid this.

## Why C?

It's the one time I can write an incredibly insecure server in C with
a good conscience. Ignoring the numerous security risks it raises, C
is a really fun programming language to use.

## Building and running

Requirements:

- a C compiler
- one of the following:
  - a POSIX.1-2001 compliant system (e.g. Linux, probably macOS)
  - a system with winsock2 (e.g. Windows)

Just compile [riskychat.c](riskychat.c) into an executable. Basic
example:

```shell
# Build with cc:
cc -o riskychat riskychat.c
# Run:
./riskychat
```

Risky Chat also compiles with TCC, so you can run it like a script if
you have [tcc][tcc]:

```shell
# Compile and run (doesn't leave an executable lying around):
tcc -run riskychat.c
```

For development, I use the following incantation:

```shell
# Enable a lot of warnings and whatever static analysis is available, and create a static binary.
# Runs on Arch Linux with the community/musl package. Build:
musl-gcc -static -std=c89 -Wall -Werror -Wpedantic -fanalyzer -O3 -o riskychat riskychat.c
# Run:
./riskychat
```

Finally, compiling for Windows works too, simply run the following in
a Developer Command Prompt (from a Visual Studio installation):

```batchfile
REM Build:
cl.exe /Feriskychat riskychat.c
REM Run:
riskychat.exe
```

## Some notes

Here's some general notes about the program, so you don't need to
figure this out by reverse engineering or wading through the code:

- Connection handling is very simple, there's no keep-alive, the TCP
  connection is closed after delivering the response. This just made
  the implementation simpler, but keep-alive could be added in without
  too much effort.
- The networking code uses [Berkeley
  sockets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berkeley_sockets) as
  standardized by POSIX, but does not use
  [select()](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/select.html).
  Instead, it just keeps calling
  [accept()](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/accept.html),
  [recv()](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/recv.html),
  and
  [send()](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/send.html)
  with a very short timeout (1 microsecond). Surprisingly enough, this
  doesn't seem to hog the CPU that badly, at least on my system.
- For some reason, SIGPIPEs seem to be prevalent. I don't know why, but I
  didn't have time to fix them either. The server probably closes the
  socket too soon in some cases.

## License

This software is distributed under the [GNU AGPL 3.0][license]
license. Though I really recommend against using it, it's very
insecure.

[course]: https://cybersecuritybase.mooc.fi/
[license]: LICENSE.md
[tcc]: https://bellard.org/tcc/
